now I'm going to show you how to place
in some distant mountains using a
one-inch landscape brush I've already
placed in a sky with adding a little bit
of blue and black and some white one
thing about mountains are there are so
many different mountains out there you
can't do anything wrong with creating
you know any shape that you put on your
canvas is going to look like a beautiful
mountain in the background as long as
the color is similar to the color a
little bit darker or it could be a
little bit lighter than the value of the
sky that you're placing on top of you're
doing just fine now I'm angling my brush
so I can start at a diagonal and wiggle
or move my arm up and down as I come
over to the left I'm raising my arm to
create different Peaks different heights
of Peaks
now usually the mountains in the
distance take on the beautiful sky
colors that's why they look so far away
now once I've created the different
heights of Peaks different widths
between them I know that it's going to
look natural and all I'm doing now is
just blending going from the bottom of
my shape and side-to-side strokes to
blend it in to the sky and whether
you're left or right-handed because I'm
right-handed I go because I'm so far
left it all you can see this I'm going
from right to left but it doesn't matter
whatever is comfortable for you and I
just want to show you something if I
pull to the left to blend hopefully you
can see
get a little bit of a darker color if I
pull to the left it gives the illusion
that the angle or the slope of the
mountain is going to the right if I pull
on the right side of the peak like this
gives the illusion that the angle of
that slope is angling to the right and
whether you're left or right-handed
you'll be doing the same thing now
because this is darker this looks like
it's closer to us than this
one in the distance or behind it if I
make this a little bit darker a little
bit more blue and black hopefully you'll
be able to see this that's all there is
to it you're just blending it in to the
surrounding sky now if I add a little
bit more paint to my brush still blue
black and a little bit of white and I
come down to do another row maybe
there's another big mountain that lives
right here these are my mountains
because I'm creating
see I'm pulling to the right from the
peak angling my brush to the angle or
edge the shape that I've created going
back and forth to blend with the wet
paint these are oil-based paints and
then if I pull to the left
it will give that illusion of the slope
angling to the left and you can make it
as steep as you want to I add a little
white you can see I can create some
little bit of snow on top I'm using a
light pressure before I was using a
medium to hard pressure now if I go back
up here with a little bit more blue and
black there's so many different things
to that you can create let me get a
little bit more pain can't see that I
can add a little shadow to this side of
the mountain and the more I go over it
the more tones it down so it's not as
dark as when I started and I can go back
a little bit more white go closer to
this edge
so it looks like this is now in front of
that shadowy mountain and I could have
more snow this is a very light pressure
barely touching the canvas can't stress
that enough
let the canvas grab it it wants to look
beautiful
and that's basically how you create
distant mountains with uneven hight
mountain peaks and as long as they're
different widths apart from each other
and light light shade as opposed to the
sky you're doing a wonderful job
you